Hi, everyone.
In this video, I want to do an overview
of hardware and software requirements.
You will know what is typical stuff for
data science competitions.
I want to start from
hardware related things.
Participating in competitions,
you generally don't need a lot
of computation resources.
A lot of competitions,
except imaged based,
have under several gigabytes of data.
It's not very huge and can be processed on
a high level laptop with 16 gigabyte ram
and four physical cores.
Quite a good setup is a tower
PC with 32 gigabyte of ram and
six physical cores,
this is what I personally use.
You have a choice of hardware to use.
I suggest you to pay attention
to the following things.
First is RAM, for this more is better.
If you can keep your data in memory,
your life will be much, much easier.
Personally, I found 64
gigabytes is quite enough, but
some programmers prefer to have
128 gigabytes or even more.
Next are cores, the more core you have
the more or faster experiments you can do.
I find it comfortable to
work with fixed cores, but
sometimes even 32 are not enough.
Next thing to pay attention for
is storage.
If you work with large datasets
that don't fit into the memory,
it's crucial to have fast disk to read and
write chunks of data.
SSD is especially important if you train
narrowness or large number of images.
In case you really need
computational resources.
For example, if you are part of team or
have a computational heavy approach,
you can rent it on cloud platforms.
They offer machines with a lot of RAMs,
cores, and GPUs.
There are several cloud providers,
most famous are Amazon AWS,
Microsoft's Azure, and Google Cloud.
Each one has its own pricing, so
we can choose which one best
fits your needs and budget.
I especially want to draw your
attention to AWS spot option.
Spot instances enable you
to be able to use instance,
which can lower your cost significantly.
The higher your price for
spot instance is set by Amazon and
fluctuates depending on supply and
demand for spot instances.
Your spot instance run whenever you
bid exceeds the current market price.
Generally, it's much
cheaper than other options.
But you always have risk that your bid
will get under current market price, and
your source will be terminated.
Tutorials about how to setup and
configure cloud resources you may
find in additional materials.
Another important thing I
want to discuss is software.
Usually, rules in competitions
prohibit to use commercial software,
since it requires to buy
a license to reproduce results.
Some competitors prefer
R as basic language.
But we will describe Python's tech
as more common and more general.
Python is quite a good language for
fast prototyping.
It has a huge amount of high quality and
open source libraries.
And I want to reuse several of them.
Let's start with NumPy.
It's a linear algebra library
to work with dimensional arrays,
which contains useful linear algebra
routines and random number capabilities.
Pandas is a library providing fast,
flexible, and expressive way to work with
a relational or table of data,
both easily and intuitive.
It allows you to process your
data in a way similar to SQL.
Scikit-learn is a library of classic
machine learning algorithms.
It features various classification,
regression, and clustering algorithms,
including support virtual machines,
random force, and a lot more.
Matplotlib is a plotting library.
It allows you to do
a variety of visualization,
like line plots, histograms,
scatter plots and a lot more.
As IDE, I suggest you to use
IPython with Jupyter node box,
since they allow you to work
interactively and remotely.
The last property is especially
useful if you use cloud resources.
Additional packages contain
implementation of more specific tools.
Usually, single packages
implement single algorithm.
XGBoost and LightGBM packages implement
gradient-boosted decision trees
in a very efficient and optimized way.
You definitely should
know about such tools.
Keras is a user-friendly framework for
neural nets.
This new package is an efficient
implementation of this new ]projection
method which we will
discuss in our course.
Also, I want to say a few words about
external tools which usually don't have
any connection despite, but
still very used for computations.
One such tool is Vowpal Wabbit.
It is a tool designed to
provide blazing speed and
handle really large data sets,
which don't fit into memory.
Libfm and libffm implement different
types of optimization machines, and
often used for sparse data like
click-through rate prediction.
Rgf is an alternative base method,
which I suggest you to use in ensembles.
You can install these packages one by one.
But as alternative, you can use byte and
distribution like Anaconda, which already
contains a lot of mentioned packages.
And then, through this video,
I want to emphasize the proposed setup
is the most common but not the only one.
Don't overestimate the role of hardware
and software, since they are just tools.
Thank you for your attention.
[MUSIC]